# CryptoClustering

This project consists of a Jupyter Notebook containing clustering analysis of cryptocurrencies and a csv resource file.

## *Description*

Using Python to perform clustering analysis on cryptocurrencies and their price changes over varying lengths of time.  
The Elbow method was used to find the optimal value for k for the KMeans method.  
This process was completed on the scaled version of the original dataset and a 3 component PCA version.
The results were then visualized for comparing effectiveness in clustering the cryptocurrencies.


## *Analysis*
>**Question:** What is the best value for `k`?  
>**Answer:** 4 is the best value for `k`  
  
>**Question:** What is the total explained variance of the three principal components?  
>**Answer:** About 90% of the total variance is explained with the three principal components  
  
>**Question:** What is the best value for `k` when using the PCA data?  
>**Answer:** 4 is the best value for `k` using the PCA data  
  
>**Question:** Does it differ from the best k value found using the original data?  
>**Answer:** No, it doesn't differ from the original data  
  
>**Question:** After visually analyzing the cluster analysis results, what is the impact of using fewer features to cluster the data using K-Means?  
>**Answer:** With fewer features, the segmentation between clusters is improved. It is visually easier to differentiate which cryptocurrencies belong to each cluster and it removes overlap between the clusters.  



### *Contributor*

Ivan Villa

##### **Additional Notes:**
Data for this project was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.